# LiWi-HAR

These are the code and data for the paper: [LiWi-HAR: Human Activity Recognition using Lightweight Programmable WiFi Chips], IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2023.

LiWi-HAR is to propose a new human activity segmentation and recognition scheme based on WiFi Channel State Information (CSI).


# Citation

@ARTICLE{DeepSeg2021,  
&nbsp; &nbsp; author={Weixi Liang and Rongshan Tang and Sihan Jaing and Ruqi Wang and Yubin Zhao and Cheng-Zhong Xu and Xudong Long and Zhuolong Chen and Xiaofan Li},  
&nbsp; &nbsp; journal={IEEE Internet of Things Journal},  
&nbsp; &nbsp; title={LiWi-HAR: Human Activity Recognition using Lightweight Programmable WiFi Chips},  
&nbsp; &nbsp; year={2023},  
}


# DataSet

The data that we extract from raw CSI data for our experiments can be downloaded from Baidu Netdisk:

Raw CSI data we collected can be downloaded via Baidu. Note that there is need to download the Data_RawCSIDat and Data_Continuous for running our experiments.
Baidu: https://pan.baidu.com/s/1FpA2u_fzFIh4FuNIcWOPdQ (Password: hhcv)  

Data of Raw CSI: Data_RawCSIDat  
Baidu Netdisk: https://pan.baidu.com/s/12DwlT58PzlVAyBc-lYx1lw (Password: k8yp)  

Data of Raw Continuous CSI: Data_Continuous  
Baidu: https://pan.baidu.com/s/1nY5Og4NlLb7VH5oBQ-LH9w (Password: xnra)  


# Requirement
Python3.7  
pytorch 
Matlab R2020b
The codes are tested under window10 and it should be ok for ESP Espressif. 


# Folder descriptions:

*01Data_PreProcess:*
This is used to extract amplitudes from raw CSI *.dat files, and save as *.mat files, aiming at generating files in the folder Data_CsiAmplitude. There is no need to run these codes for our experiments. The files in Data_CsiAmplitudeCut can directly be downloaded from Baidu Netdisk or Google Drive.

*02Segment_ExtractTrainData:*
This is used to extract training data for training the state inference model which will be used in the activity segmentation algorithm. 

*03Segment_DiscretizeCsi:*
This is used to discreize continuous CSI data into bins for segmentation

*04Segment_StateInference:*
This is for training the state inference model, and inferring the state labels of CSI data bins generated by 03Segment_DiscretizeCsi.

*05Segment_CnnSegAlgorithm1:*
This is used to segment activities according to the state labels of CSI data bins generated by 04Segment_StateInference. 

